§6.] rs hamran ro mon onnnn. 9

cf. ἅμννίαι, ἀμύνων, Ν. Orat. §262), and in accordanco with
this we have the rivers Amba, AErrrba, Erras, and Anah. In the
same way, because the stream is the child of ita fountain,

Anchoe the father of AErwaa, whose mother is Aphrodite, the
goddess of the sea-foam, denotes the outpouring of water

(mimi dyxriocr, ὢΐχέσμθῖ, timori, from ἅναχέω), and 001·-
responds to Fontes, the Jupiter Eperics of the Romans¹.

ξ 6. Tlre staram—tow related to the Umbriam aod

Ossam.

It has been mentioned that the Sabinos dispossessed the

¹ Oscens, and compelled them to invade Latium. Onr next point

is, therefore, to consider the relation in which the Sabinas stood
to the circumjacent tribes.

The original abode of these Sabinos was, according to Cato’, '
about Amiternum, in the higher Apennines. Issuing from this
lofty region, they drove the Umbrians before thern on one sido
and the Oscans on the other, and so took possession of the dis-
trict which for so many years was known by their'name.

It will nothe necessary in this place to point out the snc-
cessive steps by which the Sabine colonies made themselves
masters of the whole south and east of Italy, nor to show how
they settled on two of the hills of Rome. It is clear, on every
account, that they were not Pelasgians3 and our principal object
is to inquire how they stood related to the Umbrians and Oscans,
on whom they more immediately pressed. ·

Niebuhr thinks it not improbable that, the Sabinos and
Oscans were only branchos oi one stock, and mentions many
reasons sor supposing so⁸. It appears, however, that there are
still stronger reasons for concluding that the Sabinos were a'n
offshoot of the Umbrian rece. This is established not only hy
the testimony of Zenodotus of Troezen⁴, who wrote upon the

lFor thaso and many other ingenious combinations moro or loss
unable, soe Μὰ Urrpranp, Bracae Umor-pangi arrd Wiederpobart to
Mam, von Emit aaaron, Hamb. n. Gotho, 1843.

² Quoted by Dionys. 1. 14, p. 4⁰3 n. 49, p. 338, Roislre.

⁸Hr‘rt. Roma 1. p. 103. , ⁴ Apud Dionys. n. 43, p. 337.

 

