x · 10011011 10 nnn 1011111 11011100.

still seriously compromised by· one or two protentione
writers, whose unaoquaintanoe with the retinemento of the
Iatin langtmge is only equalled by their want 01 ordinary
1001 and judgment, and by their contemptior the first'
principles 01 scientific philology. Ahove 011, 11 10 10 he
regretted that the greatest schools in this -oountry per-
sist in the use 01 latin grammars, which not only 1011 10
convey with sufficient accuracy the essentiul facts 01 the
language, but, what is still worse, succeed 10 impressing
the tenacioue memory of the most hopeful studente with
erroneous statements and fallacious principles, which pro·

duce on ineradicable effect 00 011 except the most original
minda

Entertaining a profound conviction 01 the importanoe 01
maintaining the old basis 010 liberal education, and be-
lieving 11101 00 exact study 01 1110 language and literature
01 ancient Rome isat least as useful as Greek scholarship

in its various applicatione, I have endeavoured in the pre-
sent work and 10 more elementary publicatione to fumish
teechers and leamers with manuale of reference, which are
at any rate in harmony with the advanced philological dis-
cipline 01 the present generation, ldo not need to he told,
how 101 Ι have fallen short 01 what might be done 10 this
way. As, however, l have 001 only made the first attempt
in the right direction, hut have hitherto had few if any
follow-labourers among my own countrymen, 1 may venturo
to believe that I have been 01 some service 10 the better
class of Students; and the simultaneous demand 101 new

editions both 01 this worlr and 01 my latin Gramma'r
encourages me to hope 11101 my labours have recommended
themselves 10 the favourable considerationes 00 increasing
number 01 persons interested 101110 philological study 01

the Latin lauguage.

1. W. D.
0111001001, opt April, 1860.

 

